v5.8.0 (#4328)
mui/mui-x: CHANGELOG.md

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 5.8.0
<!-- generated comparing v5.7.0..master -->
_Apr 4, 2022_

We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 7 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

> - 🚀 Add the documentation to save and restore the grid state (#4028) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 🚀 Add methods to save and restore the grid state (#4028) @flaviendelangle
```

Since we did never communicate about it, I would not limit the highlight to the doc part
Or at least, make clear that the feature is new:

```suggestion
- 🚀 Publicly expose new methods to save and restore the grid state (#4028) @flaviendelangle
```

  The different methods to save and restore the data-grid state are now [documented](mui.com/components/data-grid/state/#save-and-restore-the-state)

> - ⌚️ Import date-piker components from the lab (#3451) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ⌚️ Move date and time picker components from the lab (#3451) @flaviendelangle
```

We could probably also link the page of #4327 once ready

  date-picker components has been added to the MUI-X repo.
  They are now accessible in their own packages: `@mui/x-date-pickers` and `@mui/x-date-pickers-pro`.
  For more information, you can read the [blog article](mui.com/blog/lab-pickers-to-mui-x).

- 🐞 Bug and typo fixes

### `@mui/x-data-grid@v5.8.0` / `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@v5.8.0`

#### Changes

- [DataGrid] Add `onProcessRowUpdateError` prop (#4267) @m4theushw

> - [DataGrid] Add generic typing to `GridColDef` and derived interfaces (#4064) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer: Is this one worth a highlight ?
Some users will not care at all
For others, it might be something very interesting

Author: Yes, it's better than "bug fixes" 👍

Reviewer: For the example, I would go for the implicit prop typing:

```tsx
const rows: Movie[] = []

return (
  <DataGrid 
    rows={rows}
    columns={[{ 
      // typeof params.row => Movie (R)
      valueGetter: params => params.row.year, 
    }]}
  />
```

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 5.8.0
<!-- generated comparing v5.7.0..master -->
_Apr 4, 2022_

We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 7 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- 🚀 Publicly expose new methods to save and restore the grid state (#4028) @flaviendelangle

  The different methods to save and restore the data-grid state are now [documented](mui.com/components/data-grid/state/#save-and-restore-the-state)

- ⌚️  Move date and time picker components from the lab (#3451) @flaviendelangle

>   date-picker components has been added to the MUI-X repo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Date and time picker components has been added to the MUI-X repo.
```

>   Date and time picker components has been added to the MUI-X repo.

Reviewer 2: ?
```suggestion
  Date and time picker components have been moved to the MUI-X repo.
```

- 📝 Add `onProcessRowUpdateError` prop to simplify error management in edit mode (#4267) @m4theushw
- ✨  Add generic typing to `GridColDef` and derived interfaces (#4064) @flaviendelangle

  You can now strongly type all the objects related to the row and the cell values.
  Here is an example, you can can find out more in the description of #4064.
  
  ```tsx
  const rows: Movie[] = []

  return (
    <DataGrid 
      rows={rows}
      columns={[{ 
        // typeof params.row => Movie (R)
        valueGetter: params => params.row.year, 
      }]}
    />
  ```

### `@mui/x-data-grid@v5.8.0` / `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@v5.8.0`

#### Changes

- [DataGrid] Add `onProcessRowUpdateError` prop (#4267) @m4theushw
- [DataGrid] Add generic typing to `GridColDef` and derived interfaces (#4064) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGrid] Add missing classes on `gridClasses` and `gridPanelClasses` (#4273) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGrid] Add `onPreferencePanelClose`/`onPreferencePanelOpen` props (#4265) @kyeongsoosoo
- [DataGrid] Add slot for filter icon button (#4276) @m4theushw
- [DataGrid] Add the documentation of the portable state (#4028) @flaviendelangle

> - [DataGrid] Allows to use keyboard navigation even with no rows (#4302) @alexfauquette

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Allow to use keyboard navigation even with no rows (#4302) @alexfauquette
```

> - [DataGrid] Fix last column border inconsistency (#4224) @alexfauquette

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Fix inconsistency in the border of the last column (#4224) @alexfauquette
```

- [DataGrid] Fix overlay blocking scrollbar when rows is empty (#4281) @m4theushw
- [DataGrid] Improve selection with keyboard (#4157) @flaviendelangle
- [DataGrid] Scroll to the top of the page when changing page (#4272) @flaviendelangle
- [l10n] Improve Danish (da-DK) locale (#4271) @simplenotezy

### `@mui/x-date-pickers@v5.0.0-alpha.0` / `@mui/x-date-pickers-pro@v5.0.0-alpha.0`

#### Changes

> - [DatePicker] Import date-piker components from the lab (#3451) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [DatePicker] Import date-picker components from the lab (#3451) @flaviendelangle
```

- 📝 Add `onProcessRowUpdateError` prop to simplify error management in edit mode (#4267) @m4theushw
- ✨  Add generic typing to `GridColDef` and derived interfaces (#4064) @flaviendelangle

>   This allows to strongly type all the objects related to the row and the cell values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can now strongly type all the objects related to the row and the cell values.
```

>   Here is an example, you can can find out more in the description of #4064.

Reviewer: I don't know if we should link to the description of a PR
Maybe for now it's the best solution, but we can create an issue to do a "TypeScript" data grid doc page and change the CHANGELOG to link to this new page when available.

Author: done -> https://github.com/mui/mui-x/issues/4330
